# Unit 1
## Domain & Range
- Definition: A function from a set D to a set R is a rule that assigns to every
element in D a unique in element in R.
- Familiar Definition: A function exists when every input(x) has only on output(y)
- Notation: $y=f(x)$
- Here x is the **independent variable** and y is the **dependent variable**
- To be a function the graph must pass the vertical line test which states that a
graph (set of points (x,y)) in the *xy*-plane defines y as a function of x if no 
vertical line intersects the graph in more than one point 

### Domain
Given a function $y = f(x)$, the domain of the function is set of all permissible 
inputs and the range is the set of all resulting outputs. Domains can be found 
algebraically; rangges are often found algebraically and graphically. Domains and
Ranges are sets. Therefore, you must use the proper notation.

### Notation
- {  } - Set (of intervals)
- ( , ) - Interval does not include the endpoint
- [ , ] - Intervals includes the endpoints
- $\cup$ - The union of intervals

### Finding Domain
- The key to finding a domain is to find everything that can't be used.

1. Domain of all polynomial functions is the $\mathbb{R}$
2. Square root functions cannot contain a negative underneath the radical
3. Rational functions cannot have zeroes in the denominator

## Continuity
- Definition: A function is continuos at a point if, graphically speaking, the graph
does not come apart at that point. In other words, the graph has no breaks or holes.
This graph is continuos everywhere. Notice that the graph has no breaks or holes. This 
means that if we are studying the behavior of the function *f* for *x* values close to any 
particular real number *a*, we can be assured that the *f(x)* will be close to the *f(a)*.

### Types of Discontinuity
1. Removable Continuity
    - Can be patched up by re-defining the hole
2. Jump Discontinuity
    - Jump in function values that make it so you can't redefine the hole
3. Infinite Discontinuity
    - Vertical asymptote, limits so that its seperated by an asymptote

## Piecewise Functions
- Definition: Piecewise functions are functions that are defined by using different 
equationss for different parts of the domain. Studied for discontinuity.

## Increasing and Decreasing
- Definition: You can visually determine the parts of a function (intervals) where it is
either increasing, decreasing, or constant.

1. Increasing: If for any two points in the interval, a positive change in *x* results in a 
positive change in *y*
2. Decreasing: If for any two points in the interval, a positive change in *x* results in a 
negative change for *y*
3. Constant: If for any two points in the interval, a positve change in *x* results in a 
zero change in *y*

## Local and Absolute Extrema
- Definition: Extrema are the peaks and valleys where a graph changes from increasing to 
decreasing or vice versa. Extrema come in two forms: maxima and minima.
    - Local / Relative: Maximum or minimum on some open interval
    - Absolute: Maximum or minimum for the function

## Graphs
### $f(x) = x$
- Domain: $(-\infty, \infty)$
- Range: $(-\infty, \infty)$
- Increasing: $(-\infty, \infty)$
- Decreasing: N/A
- Constant: N/A
- Extrema: None
- Symmetry: Odd
- Asymptotes: None
 
### $f(x) = x^2$
- Domain: $(-\infty, \infty)$
- Range: $[0, \infty)$
- Increasing: $[0, \infty)$
- Decreasing: $(-\infty, 0]$
- Constant: N/A
- Exrema: 
    - Abs. Minima: 0 when x = 0
- Symmetry: Even
- Asymptotes: None

### $f(x) = x^3$
- Domain: $(-\infty, \infty)$
- Range: $(-\infty, \infty)$
- Increasing: $(-\infty, \infty)$
- Decreasing: N/A
- Constant: N/A
- Extrema: None
- Symmetry: Odd
- Asymptotes: None

### $f(x) = \frac{1}{x}$
- Domain: $(-\infty, 0) U (0, \infty)$
- Range: $(-\infty , 0) U (0, \infty)$
- Increasing: N/A
- Decreasing: $(-\infty , 0) U (0, \infty)$
- Constant: N/A
- Extrema: None
- Symmetry: Odd
- Asympototes: $x=0, y=0$
