# Unit 1: Food First
## Vocab
1. Prehistory: The period of time before writing was invented
2. Artifact: Objects made by humans
3. Anthropology: The study of the prehistory time period
4. Archaeology: Study of past people through material remains
5. Culture: The way of life of a society
6. Technology: Skills and tools people used to meet their basic needs and wants
7. Paleolithic Period: Period of time from 2 milllion B.C. to 10,000 B.C.
8. Neolithic Period/Revolution: Period of time from 10,000 B.C. to end of prehistory
9. Nomads: People who moved from place to place to find food 
10. Hunters and Gatherers: Depended on environment for food
11. Domesticate: Raise plants/animals in controlled way for human use
12. Surplus: More than was necessary
13. Traditional Economy: An economy that relies on habit, custom, or ritual
14. Civilization: A complex, highly organized social order
15. Polythesis: Believe in many gods
16. Artisans: Skilled craftspeople
17. Cultural Diffusion: The spread of ideas, customs, and techonologies from one people to another.
18. Urbanization: The process of making an area more urban
19. Stratification: System or formation of layers, classes, or categories
20. Job Specialization: Jobs becoming increasingly specialized
21. Agriculture: The science or practice of farming
22. Agrarian Society: Any society whose economy is based on producing and maintaining crops
23. Subsitence: The act of maintaing oneself at a minimum level
24. BCE: (Before Common Era) Refers to previous to 1 CE
25. CE: (Common Era) All years after 1 CE

## Agricultural Turning Point
- Life Before Farming:
    1. Nomads: Move from place to place for food
    2. Lived in small bands, ~20 people
    3. Hunters & Gatherers
    4. Made tools out of stone, bone, or wood
    5. Developed spoken language
    5. Fires for cooking and animal skins for clothes
    6. Learned to travel across water
    7. Belief in life after death
    8. Animism $\to$ World is full of spirits and forces that reside in animals, objects, or dreams
    9. Cave paintings were a part of religious rituals

- Life After Farming
    1. Stable food supply
    2. Longer lives
    3. Land wars
    4. New technologies like arrows
    5. Permanenet settlement
    6. Domestication
    7. New jobs
    8. Better QOL (Quality of Life)
    9. More difference in class
    10. Larger populations
    11. Large scale war

